Edinburgh Festival 2006
#parser reST

I spent last week in Edinburgh visiting Hannah who is currently working there 
for BBC Scotland. While there everybody becomes a critic it seems, so I thought
I would add my own thoughts to the mix. 

I tried to see varied shows, though the Fringe comedy tends to dominate
everything.

The Comedy Zone
---------------

On the first night we went to see The Comedy Zone, which is a compered night
with three acts. We chose this as `Jon Richardson`_ was on the bill, and he was
one of the comics that we saw at Ashton Court last month. He was the highlight
of the show, even though much of the material was the same as we had seen
before (though this is understandable). His cash machine story is brilliant,
and for an added bonus laughs at Bristolians. The compere was pretty good, and
the headliner was also good, though the show was let down by the final memeber
of the lineup. She didn't really tell any jokes, which is always going to be a
problem.

.. _Jon Richardson: http://www.comedycv.co.uk/jonrichardson/

What I Heard About Iraq
-----------------------

The next morning we went to see this play. It is fairly simple, with 5 actors
giving verbatim quotes from the run up to the war in Iraq, and since them. I
quite liked the idea, as I tend to forget what was actually said, and it's
interesting to make the comparison to what happened and what was said later. 

However I really disliked the whole performance. The delivery was poor, with
very little use of dynamics, and no time for consideration of the words. The
continued attempts to humiliate the politicians were unecessary, and disguised
the issues. The use of snippets of singing were irritating. The verbatim
nature actually stifled the production, as there was no chance to stimulate
discussion, or to begin a dialogue. The list goes on.

I think what annoyed me the most was the appreciation showed by the audience
though. The only thing worse that people creating shows like this (c.f.
Farenheit 9/11), is people enjoying them and encouraging them to make more.

`London to Brighton`_
---------------------

.. _London to Brighton: http://www.l2b-themovie.co.uk/

This was the one film from the film festival that I managed to catch. It is a
new UK low budget film, and is getting plenty of attention, even though this
was one of the `first showings`_.

.. _film festival: http://www.edfilmfest.org.uk/
.. _first showings: http://www.edfilmfest.org.uk/movies/show/london_to_brighton/

It deals with prostitution, murder, gangsters and paedophilia, so it is a very
cheery film. I wont give the plot away, as I encourage you to see it yourself.
The film was excellent, with a great visual style, and terrific acting,
especially from the 12 year old girl who plays one of the main parts. 

It manages to manipulate your emotions well, but due to the subject matter it
is hard to judge who is actually deserving of sympathy (with one exception). I
was a little dissatisfied with the ending, but perhaps this is the point. 

Well worth a look if you can find it. The director said that they had a UK
distributor, and it was being released in November, and they had an
international deal as well.

Oh, I almost forgot the score, probably my favourite part of the the film. It
mixed orignal compositions, with varied music (Moonlight Sonata to Plan B).

Mark Olver
----------

Another Bristol-based comedian that we saw at Ashton Court. He was the compère
on the second day (which involved giving beer to under-10s and getting a 14
year old to shout swear words). 

He was very good in my opinion. He loves to banter with the audience, making
you feel like he hasn't started until about half-way through the act. The
audience in Edingburgh were a litle disjointed, which seemed to put him off,
but he did well at playing to everyone. 

I've decided I am going to try and see him in Bristol some time, saving the
money and effort of going to Edingburgh again.

Un-bookables
------------

It was a last minute decsion to go to a late-night event called
"Un-bookables". This is a night that is billed as comedians doing material
they can't put in their normal shows. It was a good night overall, though Sean
Rouse was terrible. He just ended up drinking his pint and not speaking for
the last ten minutes of his slot. Scott Cappuro was pretty good.

`Bates and Emerson`_: Dogs in the sink
-----------------------------------

.. _Bates and Emerson: http://www.batesandemerson.com/

This was one of the bset things I saw in the whole weekend. Two young ladies
who like to dress up and use silly voices. 

Unattended
----------

Shappi Korsandi
---------------

Present
-------

Radio Café
----------

Did Priya Pathak Ever Get Her Wallet Back?
------------------------------------------

Farenheit 451
-------------

Simon Amstell
-------------

